1.7.0 documentation (#360)
IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver: docs/content/configuration/csi_ug_config_create_statefulset.md

# Creating a StatefulSet

Create a StatefulSet YAML file to manage stateful applications.

The IBM® block storage CSI driver supports both file system and raw block volume types.

> StatefulSets can include volumes with file systems, raw block volume systems, or both.

Reviewer: I wouldn't refer to `raw block` as a "system"
```suggestion
StatefulSets can use raw block volumes, volumes with file systems, or both.
```

Reviewer: in addition, a volume cannot have more than 1 file system.
would it be more accurate to change `volumes with file systems` to `volumes with a file system`/`file system volumes`?

Author: DONE

**Important:** When defining the StatefulSet configuration, be sure to define volumes according to the PVC type.

Use the following sections for YAML creation of StatefulSets with file system, raw block volume, and mixed types. After each YAML file creation, use the `kubectl apply` command.

```
kubectl apply -f <filename>.yaml
```

The `statefulset.apps/<statefulset-name> created` message is emitted.

## Creating a StatefulSet with file system volumes

Create a StatefulSet YAML file, similar to the following `demo-statefulset-file-system.yaml` file.

> Be sure to indicate the `volumeMounts`, listing each volumes name and path. In this example, the `mountPath` is listed as `"/data"`.

Author: DONE

Create a StatefulSet YAML file, similar to the following `demo-statefulset-raw-block.yaml` file.

Be sure to indicate the `volumeDevices`, listing each volumes name and path. In this example, the `devicePath` is listed as `"/dev/block"`.

    kind: StatefulSet
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    metadata:
      name: demo-statefulset-raw-block
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: demo-statefulset
      serviceName: demo-statefulset
      replicas: 1
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app: demo-statefulset
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: demo-container
            image: registry.access.redhat.com/ubi8/ubi:latest
            command: [ "/bin/sh", "-c", "--" ]
            args: [ "while true; do sleep 30; done;" ]
            volumeDevices:
              - name: demo-volume-raw-block
                devicePath: "/dev/block"
          volumes:
          - name: demo-volume-raw-block
            persistentVolumeClaim:
              claimName: demo-pvc-raw-block

## Creating a StatefulSet with both raw block and file system volumes

Create a StatefulSet YAML file, similar to the following `demo-statefulset.yaml` file.

> In a StatefulSet file with two volumes with different volume modes, it is important to indicate both the `volumeMounts` and `volumeDevices` parameters.

Reviewer: the number of volumes is not relevant here.
```suggestion
In a StatefulSet file with both volume modes, it is important to indicate both the `volumeMounts` and `volumeDevices` parameters.
```

Author: DONE

Create a StatefulSet yaml file, similar to the following demo-statefulset-file-system.yaml file.

Here, the `volumeMounts` indicates both the name of the volume, with the necessary `mountPath` of `"/data"`.

    kind: StatefulSet
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    metadata:
      name: demo-statefulset-file-system
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: demo-statefulset
      serviceName: demo-statefulset
      replicas: 1
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app: demo-statefulset
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: demo-container
            image: registry.access.redhat.com/ubi8/ubi:latest
            command: [ "/bin/sh", "-c", "--" ]
            args: [ "while true; do sleep 30; done;" ]

>             <b>volumeMounts:

Reviewer: is `<b>` still here on purpose?

Author: fixed. DONE

Create a StatefulSet yaml file, similar to the following demo-statefulset-raw-block.yaml file.

Here, the `volumeDevices` indicates both the name of the volume, with the necessary `devicePath` of `"/dev/block"`.

    kind: StatefulSet
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    metadata:
      name: demo-statefulset-raw-block
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: demo-statefulset
      serviceName: demo-statefulset
      replicas: 1
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app: demo-statefulset
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: demo-container
            image: registry.access.redhat.com/ubi8/ubi:latest
            command: [ "/bin/sh", "-c", "--" ]
            args: [ "while true; do sleep 30; done;" ]
            volumeDevices:
              - name: demo-volume-raw-block
                devicePath: "/dev/block"
          volumes:
          - name: demo-volume-raw-block
            persistentVolumeClaim:
              claimName: demo-pvc-raw-block

## Creating a StatefulSet with both raw block and file system volumes

Create a StatefulSet yaml file, similar to the following demo-statefulset-combined.yaml file.

> In a mixed file, it is important to indicate both the `volumeMounts` and  `volumeDevices` parameters, where `mountPath` is `"/data"` and `devicePath` is `"/dev/block"`.

Reviewer: this phrasing makes it sound to me like these specific example values are important, as if `mountPath` has to be `/data` and `devicePath` has to be `/dev/block`

Author: @oriyarde  yes - is this not the case? This is how we present each one separately for filesystem and block.
Originally the section was bolded so it's important to point out section separately.
This is also how it was explained to me originally when we created the section

Reviewer: I don't think this is exactly the case, I think there was a misunderstanding.
the user can choose whichever path they want inside their container, similar to a [docker mount destination](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/)

Author: DONE

Reviewer: `both the `volumeMounts` and  `volumeDevices` parameters.` should be:
`both the `volumeMounts` and `volumeDevices` parameters.` (there's a double space after the `and`)

Author: DONE
